CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

Contributing
============
Neurocaps is an open-source package, and all contributions are welcome to help improve, enhance, and refine it!

Since the repository for Neurocaps is located on GitHub, you will need to create an account. Here are some
[instructions](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/start-your-journey/creating-an-account-on-github) to get you started.

Code of Conduct
---------------
Before making a contribution, please be aware of the [code of conduct](https://github.com/donishadsmith/neurocaps/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

Labels
------
Below are the current list of labels that can be used when opening an [issue](https://github.com/donishadsmith/neurocaps/issues):

[![Bug](https://img.shields.io/badge/-bug-d73a4a.svg)](https://github.com/donishadsmith/neurocaps/labels/bug)
- *These issues relate to unexpected behaviors.*
Please provide a detailed report of any bugs encountered so that it may be replicated and properly addressed.

[![Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/-documentation-0075ca.svg)](https://github.com/donishadsmith/neurocaps/labels/bug)
- *These issues relate to improvements or enhancements to documentation.*

[![Enhancement](https://img.shields.io/badge/-enhancement-0E8A16.svg)](https://github.com/donishadsmith/neurocaps/labels/bug)
- *These issues relate to requested new features or improvements to existing ones.*

Workflow for Making Changes
---------------------------
**1. Open an issue or commit on an existing issue**

To allow any changes to be tracked and ensure that any changes aren't being duplicated.

**2. Fork neurocaps**

This is your own unique copy of neurocaps and changes will not affect the main codebase.
Here are some guides to [forking](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/working-with-forks/fork-a-repo)
and ensuring that your fork is always [synced](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/working-with-forks/syncing-a-fork) with the main codebase.

**3. Submit a pull request**

After implementing the changes discussed in the issue, submit a pull request so that the code can be reviewed before
merging into the main codebase.

Receiving Credit
----------------
Please remember to add your credentials to the [zenodo](https://github.com/donishadsmith/neurocaps/blob/main/.zenodo.json)
to receive proper recognition foy your contribution to neurocaps.

Thank you for your contribution!

Commit message:

Name change from neurocaps to NeuroCAPs in docs only to maintain Pep 8 compliance

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

Contributing
============
NeuroCAPs is an open-source package, and all contributions are welcome to help improve, enhance, and refine it!

Since the repository for NeuroCAPs is located on GitHub, you will need to create an account. Here are some
[instructions](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/start-your-journey/creating-an-account-on-github) to get you started.

Code of Conduct
---------------
Before making a contribution, please be aware of the [code of conduct](https://github.com/donishadsmith/neurocaps/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

Labels
------
Below are the current list of labels that can be used when opening an [issue](https://github.com/donishadsmith/neurocaps/issues):

[![Bug](https://img.shields.io/badge/-bug-d73a4a.svg)](https://github.com/donishadsmith/neurocaps/labels/bug)
- *These issues relate to unexpected behaviors.*
Please provide a detailed report of any bugs encountered so that it may be replicated and properly addressed.

[![Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/-documentation-0075ca.svg)](https://github.com/donishadsmith/neurocaps/labels/bug)
- *These issues relate to improvements or enhancements to documentation.*

[![Enhancement](https://img.shields.io/badge/-enhancement-0E8A16.svg)](https://github.com/donishadsmith/neurocaps/labels/bug)
- *These issues relate to requested new features or improvements to existing ones.*

Workflow for Making Changes
---------------------------
**1. Open an issue or commit on an existing issue**

To allow any changes to be tracked and ensure that any changes aren't being duplicated.

**2. Fork NeuroCAPs**

This is your own unique copy of NeuroCAPs and changes will not affect the main codebase.
Here are some guides to [forking](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/working-with-forks/fork-a-repo)
and ensuring that your fork is always [synced](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/working-with-forks/syncing-a-fork) with the main codebase.

**3. Submit a pull request**

After implementing the changes discussed in the issue, submit a pull request so that the code can be reviewed before
merging into the main codebase.

Receiving Credit
----------------
Please remember to add your credentials to the [zenodo](https://github.com/donishadsmith/neurocaps/blob/main/.zenodo.json)
to receive proper recognition foy your contribution to neurocaps.

Thank you for your contribution!
